All right.
So we are back in our action button component.
And as a reminder, our goal with this component is for it to be able to represent either one of two
buttons, one with a blue background and a white font, and the other one with a white background and
a blue font.
And those two buttons will have styles in common between them, such as the padding and the font size.
Of course, what varies is going to be their color schemes.
So what I propose we do is that we label the button we have now, the blue one, as the primary style
of this button and the new one that we're about to create with a white background, we'll call the secondary
style or maybe the secondary variant of this button.
Basically, it's just some way that we can label them distinctly because we're going to need to do that
in order to separate the styles for them.
So what we have right now will call the primary version of this button and then we'll have a secondary
version in order to make that possible.
With a single component, what we're going to do is extract some of those access rules to the style
tag that we can add to a view component file.
As a reminder, we can add those styles right below the script tag right here.
So I'll add my styles.
And if you may recall from earlier in the course, a really good idea in each component is to add the
scoped keyword, and that will ensure that the styles that we declare in here, which is regular CC,
are only going to be applied to this HTML template right here.
They have no way of escaping this file and accidentally affecting the styles of other elements throughout
our app.
So we've limited or scoped the CSA styles here.
So let's say I want to target the button component in general, and this is where I can put the styles
that are going to be common to both our primary style and our secondary styles.
And then below that, I'll define a class called Primary, and here I'm going to define the styles for
my primary version of the button.
So the idea is, no matter which class we apply, whether it be primary or eventually a secondary class,
we're going to apply those styles plus the common ones that we will always apply to a button which is
still going to be the fundamental HTML element that is always going to be present, and thus we're going
to be able to mix and match this style with the styles from one of the two access classes that I use
below.
So what I'd like to do now is to copy these styles that we have right here below and spread them out
among these two CSS declarations.
The issue, of course, is that our styles right now are written down as tailwind utility classes such
as five.
So how can we move these ten one classes down to this style section right here where we can only use
traditional CSS syntax?
Well, to solve this problem, the Tailwind Library gives us a special syntax.
It's a special code word that we can write in here.
It's actually a Tailwind directive, much like Vue has its own directives to do Vue related functionality.
Tailwind has its own direct directives for similar purposes.
It's just adding additional functionality to the library.
And that directive is called Apply.
And here's how it works right here, where we would normally define our access styles for Button.
I'm going to write the assign followed by apply.
So make sure you include that sign and then the word apply.
This is built in to tailwind and you can see the documentation on the right says use apply to inline
any existing utility classes into your own custom CSS.
So it works exactly as the description states after the applied keyword, we can write any tailwind
classes in line and they will automatically be applied to the selector in this case the button H2 element.
So I'm going to copy the classes that we have right here.
So I'm going include five right here.
That's five because no matter whether the button is primary or secondary, we always want to have this
padding on the x axis.
Same thing with our py3 style, same thing with our rounded utility class, which makes the button around
and same thing with font medium and that ensures that we have the medium font.
So these are all prebuilt tailwind utility access classes.
They're the same ones that we're using right here, but we are simply applying them to the button element,
using the style tag in a in a view component file.
And this is where we put in again, vanilla access and view is able to understand that.
So I can go ahead and remove these utility classes from the button up here.
So I'm going to remove this and I'm going to remove rounded and I'm going to remove font medium.
And I actually think we're not going to need this border zero style either.
I think that basically applies no border, which should be the default anyway.
So I'm going to remove this style.
I don't think it was needed in the first place.
All right.
So that leaves us with three remaining access classes we can see here.
Text white, which is the white color BGI Brand Blue One, which is our custom blue background, and
then the shadow blue hover effect when you hover your mouse over the button.
So as you might have guessed, we're going to copy these styles and we're simply going to bring them
down into our primary sources class.
I'm just going to copy this right here.
Put them in here.
And again, by itself, this is not enough.
What we have to do is we have to put the apply directive in front of these tailwind classes.
So now we're going to apply these classes whenever the View Library sees the primary class being used.
And you'll notice that there's a little bit of syntax highlighting here in this code.
It says Unknown at will at apply.
That's because the Exchequer doesn't understand the syntax.
I'm going to show you how to fix that in the very next lesson.
So as it stands right now, if we were to leave the code, as is this primary class would not apply
since we are not using it on our button.
But these styles would apply because it's targeting the general HTML element, which is right here.
So in order to replicate what we just had, what I can do is provide the primary class right here,
and that will ensure that all of these tailwind classes are applied.
And thus, if I navigate back to my browser, we're going to see that the button looks exactly the same
as it did before.
And you can see the hover effect is also present.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
We're going to continue chipping away at this over the next couple of lessons, including introducing
the secondary styles for the secondary variant of the button.
Lots of fun stuff up ahead, so I will see you in the next lesson.